Value of a Batch System
#######################

Batch systems provide a mechanism for submitting, launching, and
tracking jobs on a shared resource. These services fullfil one of the
major responsibilities of a batch system, providing centralized access
to distributed resources. This greatly simplifies the use of the
cluster's distributed resources allowing users a 'single system image'
in terms of the management of their jobs and the aggregate compute
resources available. However, batch systems must do much more than
provide a global view of the cluster. As with many shared systems,
complexities arise when attempting to utilize compute resources in a
fair and effective manner. These complexities can lead to poor
performance and significant inequalities in usage. With a batch system,
a scheduler is assigned the job of determining, when, where, and how
jobs are run so as to maximize the output of the cluster. These
decisions are broken into three primary areas.


Traffic Control
===============

A scheduler is responsible for preventing jobs from interfering with
each other. If jobs are allowed to contend for resources, they will
generally decrease the performance of the cluster, delay the execution
of these jobs, and possibly cause one or more of the jobs to fail. The
scheduler is responsible for internally tracking and dedicating
requested resources to a job, thus preventing use of these resources by
other jobs.

Mission Policies
================

When clusters or other HPC platforms are created, they are typically
created for one or more specific purposes. These purposes, or mission
goals, often define various rules about how the system should be used
and who or what will be allowed to use it. To be effective, a scheduler
must provide a suite of policies which allow a site to *map* site
mission policies into scheduling behavior.

Optimizations
=============

The compute power of a cluster is a limited resource and over time,
demand will inevitably exceed supply. Intelligent scheduling decisions
can significantly improve the effectiveness of the cluster resulting in
more jobs being run and quicker job turnaround. Subject to the
constraints of the traffic control and mission policies, it is the job
of the scheduler to use whatever freedom is available to schedule jobs
in such a manner so as to maximize cluster performance.
