General Job Policies
####################

The default scheduler configuration enables a number of policies which
control functionality available to a job. These policies are described
in detail in the sections below.

Multi-Node Support
******************

By default, resources allocated to a job are allowed to span multiple
nodes. To disable this behavior, the parameter
`ENABLEMULTINODEJOBS <a.fparameters.html#ENABLEMULTINODEJOBS>`__ should
be set to **FALSE**.

Multi-Req Support
*****************

By default, jobs are only allowed to specify a single type of resource
for allocation. For example, a job could request '4 nodes with 256 MB of
memory' or '8 nodes with feature ``fast`` present'. However, the default
behavior does not allow submission of a single job which requests both
of these resource types. The parameter
`ENABLEMULTIREQJOBS <a.fparameters.html#ENABLEMULTIREQJOBS>`__ can be
set to **TRUE** to remove this constraint. (NOTE: only available in Moab
4.0.0 and higher)

Job Size Policy
***************

Moab 4.0.0 and higher allow jobs to request resource ranges. Using this
range information, the scheduler is able to maximize the amount of
resources available to the job while minimizing the amount of time the
job is blocked waiting for resources. The
`JOBSIZEPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#JOBSIZEPOLICY>`__ parameter can be
used to set this behavior according to local site needs. NOTE: job
resource ranges may only be specified when using a *local queue* as
described in the `Using a Local Queue <11.8localqueue.html>`__ section.
