General Node Administration
###########################

Since Maui interoperates with a number of resource managers of varying
capabilities, it must possess a somewhat redundant set of mechanisms for
specifying node attribute, location, and policy information. Maui
determines a node's configuration through one or more of the following
approaches:

- Direct resource manager specification

Some node attribute may be directly specified through the resource
manager. For example, Loadleveler allows a site to assign a
'MachineSpeed' value to each node. If the site chooses to specify this
value within the Loadleveler configuration, Maui will obtain this info
via the Loadleveler scheduling API and use it in scheduling decisions.
The list of node attributes supported in this manner varies from
resource manager to resource manager and should be determined by
consulting resource manager documentation.

- Translation of resource manager specified 'opaque' attributes

Many resource managers support the concept of opaque node attributes,
allowing a site to assign arbitrary strings to a node. These strings are
opaque in the sense that the resource manager passes them along to the
scheduler without assigning any meaning to them. Nodes possessing these
opaque attributes can then be requested by various jobs. Using certain
Maui parameters, sites can assign a meaning within Maui to these opaque
node attributes and extract specific node information. For example,
setting the parameter
'`FEATUREPROCSPEEDHEADER <a.fparameters.html#featureprocspeedheader>`__
xps' will cause a node with the opaque string 'xps950' to be a assigned
a processor speed of 950 MHz within Maui.

- Default node attributes

Some default node attributes can be assigned on a frame or partition
basis. Unless explicitly specified otherwise, nodes within the
particular node or partition will be assigned these default attribute
values. See the `Partition Overview <7.2partitions.html>`__ for more
information.

- Direct Maui parameter specification

Maui also provides a parameter named
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ which allows direct
specification of virtually all node attributes supported via other
mechanisms and also provides a number of additional attributes not found
elsewhere. For example, a site may wish to specify something like the
following:

::

  NODECFG[node031] MAXJOB=2 PROCSPEED=600 PARTITION=small

.. note::

   These approaches may be mixed and matched according to the
   site's local needs. Precedence for the approaches generally follows the
   order listed above in cases where conflicting node configuration
   information is specified through one or more mechanisms.

.. toctree::

  12.1nodelocation
  12.2nodeattributes
  12.3nodepolicies
