Node Location
#############

Nodes can be assigned three types of location information based on
partitions, frames, and/or queues.

Partitions
**********

The first form of location assignment, the partition, allows nodes to be
grouped according to physical resource constraints or policy needs. By
default, jobs are not allowed to span more than one partition so
partition boundaries are often valuable if a underlying network topology
make certain resource allocations undesirable. Additionally,
per-partition policies can be specified to grant control over how
scheduling is handled on a partition by partition basis. See the
`Partition Overview <7.2partitions.html>`__ for more information.

Frames
******

Frame based location information is orthogonal to the partition based
configuration and is mainly an organizational construct. In general
frame based location usage, a node is assigned both a frame and a slot
number. This approach has descended from the IBM SP2 organizational
approach in which a frame can contain any number of slots but typically
contains between 1 and 64. Using the frame and slot number combo,
individual compute nodes can be grouped and displayed in a more ordered
manner in certain Maui commands (i.e.,
`showstate <commands/showstate.html>`__). Currently, frame information
can only be specified directly by the system via the SDR interface on
SP2/Loadleveler systems. In all other systems, this information must be
manually specified via the `NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__
parameter.

Example:

| ---
| ``# maui.cfg``

| ``NODECFG[node024] FRAME=1 SLOT=1``
| ``NODECFG[node025] FRAME=1 SLOT=2``
| ``NODECFG[node026] FRAME=2 SLOT=1 PARTITION=special``
| ``...``
| ---

When specifying node and frame information, slot values must be in the
range of 1 to 32 (limited to 1 to 16 in Maui 3.0 and earlier). and
frames must be in the range of 1 to 64.

Queues
******

Some resource managers allow queues (or classes) to be defined and then
associated with a subset of available compute resources. With such
systems, such as Loadleveler or PBSPro, these queue to node mappings are
automatically detected. On resource managers which do not provide this
service, Maui provides alternative mechanisms for enabling this feature.

OpenPBS Queue to Node Mapping
=============================

Under OpenPBS, queue to node mapping can be accomplished setting the
queue ``acl_hosts`` parameter to the mapping hostlist desired within
PBS. Further, the ``acl_host_enable`` parameter should be set to
``False``. **NOTE**: Setting ``acl_hosts`` and then setting
``acl_host_enable`` to ``True`` will constrain the list of hosts from
which jobs may be submitted to the queue. Prior to Maui 3.0.7p3, queue
to node mapping was only enabled when ``acl_host_enable`` was set to
``True``, thus, for these versions, the ``acl_host`` list should always
include all submission hosts.
