Node Attributes
###############

Nodes can possess a large number of attributes describing their
configuration. The majority of these attributes such as operating system
or configured network interfaces can only be specified by the direct
resource manager interface. However, the number and detail of node
attributes varies widely from resource manager to resource manager.
Sites often have interest in making scheduling decisions based on
scheduling attributes not directly supplied by the resource manager.
Configurable node attributes are listed below.

**NODETYPE**

**** The **NODETYPE** attribute is most commonly used in conjunction
with an allocation management system such as QBank. In these cases, each
node is assigned a node type and within the allocation management
system, each node type is assigned a charge rate. For example, a site
may wish to charge users more for using large memory nodes and may
assign a node type of 'BIGMEM' to these nodes. The allocation management
system would then charge a premium rate for jobs using BIGMEM nodes.
(See the `Allocation Manager Overview <6.4allocationmanagement.html>`__
for more information.)

Node types are specified as simple strings. If no node type is
explicitly set, the node will possess the default node type of
'[DEFAULT]'. Node type information can be specified directly using
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ or through use of the
`FEATURENODETYPEHEADER <a.fparameters.html#featurenodetypeheader>`__
parameter.

**Example:**

| ---
| ``# maui.cfg``

| ``NODECFG[node024] NODETYPE=BIGMEM``
| ...
| ---

**PROCSPEED**

**** Knowing a node's processor speed can help the scheduler improve
intra-job efficiencies by allocating nodes of similar speeds together.
This helps reduce losses due to poor internal job load balancing. Maui's
`Node Set <8.3nodesetoverview.html>`__ scheduling policies allow a site
to control processor speed based allocation behavior.

| Processor speed information is specified in MHz and can be indicated
  directly using `NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ or through use
  of the
  `FEATUREPROCSPEEDHEADER <a.fparameters.html#featureprocspeedheader>`__
  parameter.

**SPEED**

A node's speed is very similar to its procspeed but is specified as a
relative value. In general use, the speed of a base node is determined
and assigned a speed of 1.0. A node that is 50% faster would be assigned
a value of 1.5 while a slower node may receive a value which is
proportionally less than 1.0. Node speeds do not have to be directly
proportional to processor speeds and may take into account factors such
as memory size or networking interface. Generally, node speed
information is used to determine proper wallclock limit and CPU time
scaling adjustments.

Node speed information is specified as a unitless floating point ratio
and can be specified through the resource manager or with the
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ parameter.

.. note::

  The **SPEED** specification must be in the range of 0.01 to 100.0.

**FEATURES**

Not all resource managers allow specification of opaque node
features. For these systems, the
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ parameter can be used to
directly assign a list of node features to individual nodes.

**NETWORK**

The ability to specify which networks are available to a given node
is limited to only a few resource manager. Using the **NETWORK**
attribute, administrators can establish this node to network connection
directly through the scheduler. The
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ parameter allows this list to
be specified in a comma delimited list.
