Node Specific Policies
######################

Specification of node policies is fairly limited within Maui mainly
because the demand for such policies is limited. These policies allow a
site to specify on a node by node basis what the node will and will not
support. Node policies may be applied to specific nodes or applied
system wide using the specification '``NODECFG[DEFAULT] ...``' Note that
these policies were introduced over time so not all policies are
supported in all versions.
**MAXJOB**

This policy constrains the number of total independent jobs a given node
may run simultaneously. It can only be specified via the **NODECFG**
parameter.

**MAXJOBPERUSER**

**** This policy constrains the number of total independent jobs a given
node may run simultaneously associated with any single user. Like
**MAXJOB**, it can only be specified via the
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ parameter.

**MAXLOAD**

**MAXLOAD** constrains the CPU load the node will support as opposed to
the number of jobs. If the node's load exceeds the **MAXLOAD** limit and
the `NODELOADPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#nodeloadpolicy>`__ parameter is
set to **ADJUSTSTATE** , the node will be marked busy. Under Maui 3.0,
the max load policy could be applied system wide using the parameter
`NODEMAXLOAD <a.fparameters.html#nodemaxload>`__.

|image4| Node policies are used strictly as constraints. If a node is
defined as having a single processor or the
`NODEACCESSPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#nodeaccesspolicy>`__ is set to
**DEDICATED**, and a **MAXJOB** policy of 3 is specified, Maui will
probably not run more than one job per node. A node's configured
processors must be specified so that multiple jobs may run and then the
**MAXJOB** policy will be effective. The number of configured processors
per node is specified on a resource manager specific basis. PBS, for
example, allows this to be adjusted by setting the number of virtual
processors, 'np' per node in the PBS 'nodes' file.

**Example:**

| ---
| ``# maui.cfg``\ ````

| ``NODECFG[node024] MAXJOB=4 MAXJOBPERUSER=2``
| ``NODECFG[node025] MAXJOB=2``
| ``NODECFG[node026] MAXJOBPERUSER=1``
| ``NODECFG[DEFAULT] MAXLOAD=2.5``
| ...
| ---
