Resource Manager Configuration
##############################

Configurable Resource Manager Attributes
****************************************

The scheduler's resource manager interface(s) are defined using the
`RMCFG <a.fparameters.html#rmcfg>`__ parameter. This parameter allows
specification of key aspects of the interface as shown in the table
below.

**Attribute**
**Format**
**Default**
**Description**
**Example**
**ASYNCJOBSTART**
<BOOLEAN>
**FALSE**
Enables Maui to start jobs asynchronously. **NOTE**: Only enabled for
PBS.
``RMCFG[pbs] ASYNCJOBSTART=TRUE ``
**AUTHTYPE**
one of **CHECKSUM**, **PKI**, or **SECUREPORT**
**CHECKSUM**
specifies the security protocol to be used in scheduler-resource manager
communication. **NOTE**: Only valid with WIKI based interfaces.
``RMCFG[base] AUTHTYPE=CHECKSUM``
(The scheduler will require a secret key based checksum associated with
each resource manager message)

**CONFIGFILE**
<STRING>
**N/A**
specifies the resource manager specific configuration file which must be
used to enable correct API communication. **NOTE**: Only valid with LL
based interfaces.
``RMCFG[base] TYPE=LL CONFIGFILE=/home/loadl/loadl_config``
(The scheduler will utilize the specified file when establishing the
resource manager/scheduler interface connection)

**EPORT**
<INTEGER>
**N/A**
specifies the event port to use to receive resource manager based
scheduling events.
``RMCFG[base] EPORT=15017``
(The scheduler will look for scheduling events from the resource manager
host at port 15017)

**MINETIME**
<INTEGER>
**1**
specifies the minimum time in seconds between processing subsequent
scheduling events.
``RMCFG[base] MINETIME=5``
(The scheduler will batch-process scheduling events which occur less
than 5 seconds apart.)

**NMPORT**
<INTEGER>
(any valid port number)
specifies a non-default RM node manager through which extended node
attribute information may be obtained
``RMCFG[base] NMPORT=13001``
(The scheduler will contact the node manager located on each compute
node at port 13001)

**PORT**
<INTEGER>
0
specifies the port on which the scheduler should contact the associated
resource manager. The value '0' specifies that the resource manager
default port should be used.
``RMCFG[base] TYPE=PBS HOST=cws PORT=20001``
(The scheduler will attempt to contact the PBS server daemon on host
cws, port 20001)

**SERVER**
<URL>
N/A
specifies the resource management service to use. If not specified, the
scheduler will locate the resource manager via built-in defaults or, if
available, with an information service. **NOTE**: only available in Maui
3.2.7 and higher.
``RMCFG[base] server=ll://supercluster.org:9705``
(The scheduler will attempt to utilize the Loadleveler scheduling API at
the specified location.)

**SUBMITCMD**
<STRING>
**N/A**
specifies the full pathname to the resource manager job submission
client.
``RMCFG[base] SUBMITCMD=/usr/local/bin/qsub``
(The scheduler will use the specified submit command when launching
jobs.)

**TIMEOUT**
<INTEGER>
15
time (in seconds) the scheduler will wait for a response from the
resource manager.
``RMCFG[base] TIMEOUT=30``
(The scheduler will wait 30 seconds to receive a response from the
resource manager before timing out and giving up. The scheduler will try
again on the next iteration.)

**TYPE**
<RMTYPE>[:<RMSUBTYPE>] where <RMTYPE> is one of the following: **LL**,
**LSF**, **PBS**, **RMS**, **SGE**, **SSS**, or **WIKI** and the
optional <RMSUBTYPE> value is one of **RMS**
PBS
specifies type of resource manager to be contacted by the scheduler.
NOTE: for **TYPE** **WIKI**, **AUTHTYPE** must be set to **CHECKSUM**
The <RMSUBTYPE> option is currently only used to support Compaq's RMS
resource manager in conjunction with PBS. In this case, the value
``PBS:RMS`` should be specified. **NOTE**: deprecated in Maui 3.2.7 and
higher - use **server** attribute.
``RMCFG[clusterA] TYPE=PBS HOST=clusterA PORT=15003``
``RMCFG[clusterB] TYPE=PBS HOST=clusterB PORT=15005``
(The scheduler will interface to two different PBS resource managers,
one located on server clusterA at port 15003 and one located on server
clusterB at port 15004)

Resource Manager Configuration Details
**************************************

As with all scheduler parameters, **RMCFG** follows the syntax described
within the `Parameters Overview <3.4configure.html>`__.

Resource Manager Types
======================

The parameter **RMCFG** allows the scheduler to interface to multiple
types of resource managers using the **TYPE** or **SERVER** attributes.
Specifying these attributes, any of the resource managers listed below
may be supported. To further assist in configuration, *Integration
Guides* are provided for `PBS <pbsintegration.html>`__,
`SGE <sgeintegration.html>`__, and `Loadleveler <llintegration.html>`__
systems.

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **TYPE**                                                                 |
| **Resource Managers**                                                    |
| **Details**                                                              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| LL                                                                       |
| Loadleveler version 2.x and 3.x                                          |
| N/A                                                                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| LSF                                                                      |
| Platform's Load Sharing Facility, version 5.1 and higher                 |
| N/A                                                                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| PBS                                                                      |
| OpenPBS (all versions), TORQUE (all versions), PBSPro (all versions)     |
| N/A                                                                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| RMS                                                                      |
| RMS (for Quadrics based systems)                                         |
| for development use only - not production quality                        |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SGE                                                                      |
| Sun Grid Engine version 5.3 and higher                                   |
| N/A                                                                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSS                                                                      |
| Scalable Systems Software Project version 0.5 and 2.0 and higher         |
| N/A                                                                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| WIKI                                                                     |
| `Wiki <wiki>`__ interface specification version 1.0 and higher           |
| used for LRM, YRM, ClubMASK, BProc, and others                           |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Resource Manager Name
=====================

Maui can support more than one resource manager simultaneously.
Consequently, the **RMCFG** parameter takes an index value, i.e.,
``RMCFG[clusterA] TYPE=PBS``. This index value essentially *names* the
resource manager (as done by the deprecated parameter **RMNAME**. The
resource manager name is used by the scheduler in diagnostic displays,
logging, and in reporting resource consumption to the allocation
manager. For most environments, the selection of the resource manager
*name* can be arbitrary.

Resource Manager Location
=========================

The **HOST**, **PORT**, and **SERVER** attributes can be used to specify
how the resource manager should be contacted. For many resource managers
(i.e., OpenPBS, PBSPro, Loadleveler, SGE, LSF, etc) the interface
correctly establishes contact using default values. These parameters
need only to be specified for resource managers such as the WIKI
interface (which do not include defaults) or with resources managers
which can be configured to run at non-standard locations (such as PBS).
In all other cases, the resource manager is automatically located.

Other Attribute
===============

The maximum amount of time Maui will wait on a resource manager call can
be controlled by the **`TIMEOUT <a.fparameters.html#rmcfg>`__**
parameter which defaults to 30 seconds. Only rarely will this parameter
need to be changed. The **AUTHTYPE** attribute allows specification of
how security over the scheduler/resource manager interface is to be
handled. Currently, only the WIKI interface is affected by this
parameter.

Another **RMCFG** attribute is
**`CONFIGFILE <a.fparameters.html#rmcfg>`__**, which specifies the
location of the resource manager's primary config file and is used when
detailed resource manager information not available via the scheduling
interface is required. It is currently only used with the Loadleveler
interface and needs to only be specified when using Maui grid-scheduling
capabilities.

Finally, the `NMPORT <a.fparameters.html#rmcfg>`__ attribute allows
specification of the resource manager's node manager port and is only
required when this port has been set to a non-default value. It is
currently only used within PBS to allow MOM specific information to be
gathered and utilized by Maui.

Scheduler/Resource Manager Interactions
***************************************

In the simplest configuration, Maui interacts with the resource manager
using the four primary functions listed below:

**GETJOBINFO**

Collect detailed state and requirement information about idle, running,
and recently completed jobs.

**GETNODEINFO**

Collect detailed state information about idle, busy, and defined nodes.

**STARTJOB**

Immediately start a specific job on a particular set of nodes.

**CANCELJOB**

Immediately cancel a specific job regardless of job state.

Using these four simple commands, Maui enables nearly its entire suite
of scheduling functions. More detailed information about resource
manager specific requirements and semantics for each of these commands
can be found in the specific resource manager overviews. (LL, PBS, or
`WIKI <wiki>`__).

In addition to these base commands, other commands are required to
support advanced features such a dynamic job support, suspend/resume,
gang scheduling, and scheduler initiated checkpoint restart. More
information about these commands will be forthcoming.

Information on creation a new scheduler resource manager interface can
be found in the `Adding New Resource Manager
Interfaces <13.4addingrminterfaces.html>`__ section.
