Tracking System Failures
########################

System Failures
***************

The scheduler has a number of dependencies which may cause failures if
not satisfied. These dependencies are in the areas of disk space,
network access, memory, and processor utilization.

Disk Space
==========

The scheduler utilizes a number of files. If the file system is full or
otherwise inaccessible, the following behaviors might be noted:

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **File**                                                                 |
| **Failure**                                                              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **maui.pid**                                                             |
| scheduler cannot perform *single instance* check                         |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **maui.ck\***                                                            |
| scheduler cannot store persistent record of reservations, jobs,          |
| policies, summary statistics, etc.                                       |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **maui.cfg**                                                             |
| scheduler cannot load local configuration                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **log/\***                                                               |
| scheduler cannot log activities                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **stats/\***                                                             |
| scheduler cannot write job records                                       |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Network
=======

The scheduler utilizes a number of socket connections to perform basic
functions. Network failures may affect the following facilities.

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Network Connection**                                                   |
| **Failure**                                                              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| scheduler client                                                         |
| scheduler client commands fail                                           |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| resource manager                                                         |
| scheduler is unable to load/update information regarding nodes and jobs  |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| allocation manager                                                       |
| scheduler is unable to validate account access or reserve/debit account  |
| balances                                                                 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Memory
======

Depending on cluster size and configuration, the scheduler may require
up to 50 MB of memory on the server host. If inadequate memory is
available, multiple aspects of scheduling may be negatively affected.
The scheduler log files should indicate is memory failures are detected
and mark any such messages with the *ERROR* or *ALERT* keywords.

Processor Utilization
=====================

On a heavily loaded system, the scheduler may appear sluggish and
unresponsive. However no direct failures should result from this
slowdown. Indirect failures may include timeouts of peer services (such
as the resource manager or allocation manager) or timeouts of client
commands. All timeouts should be recorded in the scheduler log files.

Internal Errors
***************

The Maui scheduling system contains features to assist in diagnosing
internal failures. If the scheduler exits unexpectedly, the scheduler
logs may provide information regarding the cause. If no reason can be
determined, use of a debugger may be required.

Logs
====

The first step in any exit failure is to check the last few lines of the
scheduler log. In many cases, the scheduler may have exited due to
misconfiguration or detected system failures. The last few lines of the
log should indicate why the scheduler exited and what changes would be
required to correct the situation. If the scheduler did not
intentionally exit, increasing the `LOGLEVEL <a.fparameters.html>`__
parameter to **7** or higher, may help isolate the problem.

Tracing the Failure with a Debugger
===================================

If the scheduler did not intentionally exit due detected environmental
conditions, use of a debugger may assist in pursuing the problem
further. The fastest method to isolate such situations is to launch the
scheduler under the debugger and run it until the failure occurs. Use of
the **MAUIDEBUG** environment variable will prevent the scheduler from
*backgrounding* itself and allow the debugger to remain attached. The
example below describes a standard debugging session.

::

    > export MAUIDEBUG=yes
    > gdb maui
    (gdb) r
    ...
    signal SIGILL received
    (gdb) where
    #0 MPBSJobStart()  MPBSI.c:2013
    #1 MRMJobStart()   MRM.c:1107
    #2 main()          MSys.c:372

The debugger output should locate the source of the failure and help
isolate the root cause.

Reporting Failures
******************

If an internal failure is detected on your system, the information of
greatest value to developers in isolating the problem will be the output
of the gdb **where** subcommand and a printout of all variables
associated with the failure. In addition, a level 7 log covering the
failure can also help in determining the environment which caused the
failure. This information should be sent to
`help@supercluster.org <>`__.
