Resource Traces
###############

Resource traces fully describe all scheduling relevant aspects of a
batch system's compute resources. In most cases, each resource trace
describes a single compute node providing information about configured
resources, node location, supported classes and queues, etc. Each
resource trace consists of a single line composed of 21 whitespace
delimited fields. Each field is described in detail in the table
below.

**Field Name**
**Field Index**
**Data Format**
**Default Value**
**Details**
Resource Type
1
one of **COMPUTENODE**
**COMPUTENODE**
currently the only legal value is **COMPUTENODE**
Event Type
2
one of **AVAILABLE**, **DEFINED**, or **DRAINED**
[NONE]
when **AVAILABLE**, **DEFINED**, or **DRAINED** is specified, node will
start in the state Idle, Down, or Drained respectively.
Event Time
3
<EPOCHTIME>
1
time event occurred. (currently ignored)
Resource ID
4
<STRING>
N/A
for **COMPUTENODE** resources, this should be the name of the node.
Resource Manager Name
5
<STRING>
[NONE]
name of resource manager resource is associated with
Configured Swap
6
<INTEGER>
1
amount of virtual memory (in MB) configured on node
Configured Memory
7
<INTEGER>
1
amount of real memory (in MB) configured on node (i.e. RAM)
Configured Disk
8
<INTEGER>
1
amount of local disk (in MB) on node available to batch jobs
Configured Processors
9
<INTEGER>
1
number of processors configured on node
Resource Frame Location
10
<INTEGER>
1
number of frame containing node (SP2 only)
Resource Slot Location
11
<INTEGER>
1
Number of first frame slot used by node (SP2 only)
Resource Slot Use Count
12
<INTEGER>
1
Number of frame slots used by node (SP2 only)
Node Operating System
13
<STRING>
[NONE]
node operating system
Node Architecture
14
<STRING>
[NONE]
node architecture
Configured Node Features
15
<STRING>
[NONE]
square bracket delimited list of node features/attributes (ie,
'[amd][s1200]')
Configured Run Classes
16
<STRING>
[batch:1]
square bracket delimited list of CLASSNAME:CLASSCOUNT pairs.
Configured Network Adapters
17
<STRING>
[NONE]
square bracket delimited list of configured network adapters (ie,
'[atm][fddi][ethernet]')
Relative Resource Speed
18
<DOUBLE>
1.0
relative machine speed value
RESERVED FIELD 1
19
<STRING>
[NONE]
[NONE]
RESERVED FIELD 2
20
<STRING>
[NONE]
[NONE]
RESERVED FIELD 3
21
<STRING>
[NONE]
[NONE]


.. note::

   If no applicable value is specified, the exact string '**[NONE]**' should be entered.


Sample Resource Trace:

'``COMPUTENODE AVAILABLE 0 cluster008 PBS1 423132 256 7140 2 -1 -1 1 LINUX62 AthlonK7 [s950][compute] [batch:2]  [ethernet][atm] 1.67 [NONE] [NONE] [NONE]``'
