Initial Maui Configuration
##########################

After you install Maui, there are a few decisions which must be made and
some corresponding information which will need to be provided in the
Maui configuration file, **maui.cfg**. The **configure** script
automatically sets most of these parameters for you. However, this
document provides some additional information to allow further initial
configuration. If you are satisfied with the values specified in
**configure** then you can probably skip this section. The parameters
needed for proper initial startup include the following:

- **SERVERHOST**

This specifies where Maui will run. It allows Maui client commands to
locate the Maui server. It must specify the fully qualified hostname of
the machine on which Maui will run. (Example: ``SERVERHOST cw.psu.edu``)

- **SERVERPORT**

This specifies the port on which the Maui server will listen for client
connections. Unless the default port of 40559 is unacceptable, this
parameter need not be set. (Example: ``SERVERPORT 50001``)

- **ADMIN1**

Maui has 3 major levels of admin access. Users which are to be granted
full control of all Maui functions should be indicated by setting the
**ADMIN1** parameter. The first user in this list is considered the
*primary* admin. It is the ID under which Maui should always run. Maui
will only run under the primary admin user id and will shut itself down
otherwise. In order for Maui to properly interact with both PBS and
Loadleveler, it is important that the primary Maui admin also be
configured as a resource manager admin within each of those systems.
(Example: ``ADMIN1 joe charles``)

- **RMTYPE[X]**

Maui must be told which resource manager(s) to talk to. Maui currently
has interfaces to Loadleveler, Wiki, and PBS. To specify a resource
manager, typically only the resource manager type needs to be indicated
using the keywords LL, WIKI, or PBS (Example: ``RMTYPE[0] PBS``). The
array index in the parameter name allows more than one resource manager
to be specified. In these multiple resource manager situations,
additional parameters may need to be specified depending on the resource
manager type. Some of the related resource management parameters are
listed below. Further information about each is available in the
`parameters <a.fparameters.html>`__ documentation.

| `RMPORT <a.fparameters.html#rmport>`__
| `RMSERVER <a.fparameters.html#rmserver>`__
| `RMTYPE <a.fparameters.html#rmtype>`__
| `RMAUTHTYPE <a.fparameters.html#rmauthtype>`__
| `RMCONFIGFILE <a.fparameters.html#rmconfigfile>`__
