File Layout
###########

Maui is initially unpacked into a simple one-deep directory structure as
shown below. Note that some of the files (i.e., log and statistics
files) will be created as Maui is run.

| $(MAUIHOMEDIR) \_\_\_\_\_ **maui.cfg** (general config file containing
  information required by both the Maui server and user interface
  clients)
| \|\_\_\_ **maui-private.cfg** (config file containing private
  information required by the Maui server only)
| \|\_\_\_ **`fs.cfg <fsconfig.html>`__** (fairshare config file used in
  Maui 3.0.6 and earlier)
| \|\_\_\_ **maui.ck** (Maui checkpoint file)
| \|\_\_\_ **maui.pid** (Maui 'lock' file to prevent multiple instances)
| \|\_\_\_ **`log <a.fparameters.html#logdir>`__** (directory for Maui
  log files - REQUIRED BY DEFAULT)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **`maui.log <a.fparameters.html#logfile>`__** (Maui log
  file)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **maui.log.1** (previous 'rolled' Maui log file)
| \|\_\_\_ **`stats <a.fparameters.html#statdir>`__** (directory for
  Maui statistics files - REQUIRED BY DEFAULT)
| \|\_\_\_\_ Maui stats files (in format 'stats.<YYYY>\_<MM>\_<DD>')
| \|\_\_\_\_ Maui fairshare data files (in format 'FS.<EPOCHTIME>')
| \|\_\_\_ **tools** (directory for local tools called by Maui -
  OPTIONAL BY DEFAULT)
| \|\_\_\_ **traces** (directory for Maui simulation trace files -
  REQUIRED FOR SIMULATIONS)
| \|\_\_\_\_ resource.trace1 (sample resource trace file)
| \|\_\_\_\_ workload.trace1 (sample workload trace file)
| \|\_\_\_ **bin** (directory for Maui executable files - REQUIRED BY
  DEFAULT)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **maui** (Maui scheduler executable)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **maui\_client** (Maui user interface client executable)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **`profiler <commands/profiler.html>`__** (tool used to
  analyze Maui statistics)
| \|\_\_\_ **src** (directory for Maui source code files - REQUIRED FOR
  BUILD)
| \|\_\_\_ **spool** (directory for temporary Maui files - REQUIRED FOR
  ADVANCED FEATURES)
| \|\_\_\_ **contrib** (directory containing contributed code in the
  areas of GUI's, algorithms, policies, etc)

| $(MAUIINSTDIR) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_bin (directory for installed Maui
  executables)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **maui** (Maui scheduler executable)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **maui\_client** (Maui user interface client executable)
| \|\_\_\_\_ **profiler** (tool used to analyze Maui statistics)

**/etc/maui.cfg** (optional file. This file is used to override default
'$(MAUIHOMEDIR)' settings. it should contain the string '**SERVERHOMEDIR
$(DIRECTORY)**' to override the 'built-in' $(MAUIHOMEDIR)' setting.

When Maui is configured via the **configure** script, the user is
queried for the location of the Maui home directory and this directory,
$(MAUIHOMEDIR), is compiled in as the default **MAUIHOMEDIR** directory
when Maui is built. Unless specified otherwise, Maui will look in this
directory for its various config files. If you wish to run Maui out of a
different directory, you can override the default home directory setting
by creating a **/etc/maui.cfg** file containing the string
'**SERVERHOMEDIR <DIRECTORY>**', by setting the environment variable
'**MAUIHOMEDIR**', or by specifying the configfile explicitly using the
'**-C**' command line option on Maui and the Maui client commands.

When Maui is run, it creates a log file, '**maui.log**' in the log
directory and creates a statistics file in the stats directory with the
naming convention '**stats.YYYY\_MM\_DD**' (i.e., 'stats.2000\_09\_20').
Additionally, a checkpoint file, **maui.ck** and lock file **maui.pid**
are maintained in the Maui home directory.
