Scheduling Dictionary
#####################

**Term**
**Definition**
**Example**
**SSS v0.1 Token**
` <>`__\ **Account**
A credential also known as 'project ID'. Multiple users may be
associated a single account ID and each user may have access to multiple
accounts. (See `Credential <#Credential>`__ )
``ACCOUNT=projectX``
account
` <>`__\ **ACL (Access Control List)**
Within the scheduling world, an access control list is used and applied
much as it is elsewhere. An ACL defines what credentials are required to
access or utilizes particular objects. The principle objects to which
ACL's are applied are `reservations <#Reservation>`__ and
`QOS <#QOS>`__'s. ACL's may contain both allow and deny statements, may
include wildcards, and may contain rules based on multiple object types.
Reservation META1 contains 4 access statements.
Allow jobs owned by user ``john`` or ``bob``
Allow jobs with QOS ``premium``
Deny jobs in class ``debug``
Allow jobs with a duration of less than 1 hour
**AS** (Access Statement)
Attributes:

| **``TYPE``** one of ``ALLOW``, ``DENY``
| **``OBJECT``** one of ``USER``, ``GROUP``, ``ACCOUNT``, ``QOS``,
  ``CLASS``, ``DURATION``
| **``NAME <STRING>``**

Members:

[NONE]

Example:

| <AS TYPE="ALLOW" OBJECT="USER" NAME="john"/>
| <AS TYPE="ALLOW" OBJECT="USER" NAME="bob"/>
| <AS TYPE="ALLOW" OBJECT="QOS" NAME="premium"/>
| <AS TYPE="DENY" OBJECT="CLASS" NAME="debug"/>
| <AS TYPE="ALLOW" OBJECT="DURATION" NAME="1:00:00"/>

(used in reservation and job creation and queries)
` <>`__\ **Allocation**
A logical, scalar unit assigned to users on a credential basis,
providing access to a particular quantity of compute resources.
Allocations are consumed by jobs associated with those credentials.
``ALLOCATION=30000``
ALLOCATION
Attributes:

Members:

(used in ???)
` <>`__\ **Class**
(see `Queue <#Queue>`__ ) A class is a logical container object which
holds jobs allowing a site to associate various constraints and defaults
to these jobs. Class access can also be tied to individual nodes
defining whether or not a particular node will accept a job associated
with a given class. Class based access to a node is denied unless
explicitly allowed via resource manager configuration. Within Maui,
classes are tied to jobs as a `credential <#Credential>`__.
job cw.073 is submitted to class batch
node cl02 accepts jobs in class batch

reservation weekend allows access to jobs in class batch
**class**
Attributes:

Name: <STRING>

Members:

[NONE]

(used in ???)
` <>`__\ **CPU**
A single processing unit. A CPU is a consumable resource. Nodes
typically consist of one or more CPU's. (same as
`processor <#Processor>`__ )
N/A
proc
` <>`__\ **Credential**
An attribute associated with `jobs <#Job>`__ and other objects which
determines object identity. In the case of schedulers and resource
managers,
credential based policies and limits are often established. At submit
time, jobs are associated with a number of credentials such as
`user <#User>`__ , `group <#Group>`__ , `account <#Account>`__ ,
`QOS <#QOS>`__ , and `class <#Class>`__ . These job credentials subject
the job to various polices and grant it various types of access.
In most cases, credentials set both the privileges of the job and the ID
of the actual job `executable <#Execution-Environment>`__ .
Job cw.24001 possesses the following credentials:
``USER=john;GROUP=staff;ACCOUNT=[NONE];``
``QOS=[DEFAULT];CLASS=batch``
cred
` <>`__\ **Disk**
A quantity of local disk available for use by batch jobs. Disk is a
`consumable resource <#Resource-Consumable>`__ .
N/A
disk
` <>`__\ **Execution Environment**
A description of the environment in which the executable is launched.
This environment may include attributes such as the following:
an executable
command line args
input file
output file
local user id
local group id
process resource limits
Job cw.24001 possesses the following execution environment:
``EXEC=/bin/sleep;ARGS="60";``
``INPUT=[NONE];OUTPUT=[NONE];``
``USER=loadl;GROUP=staff;``
` <>`__\ **Fairshare**
N/A
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Fairness**
N/A
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Group**
A `credential <#Credential>`__ typically directly mapping to a user's
Unix® group ID.
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Job**
The fundamental object of resource consumption. A job contains the
following components:
A list of required `consumable resources <#Resource-Consumable>`__
A list of `resource constraints <#Resource-Constraints>`__ controlling
which resources may be allocated to the job
A list of `job constraints <#Job-Constraints>`__ controlling where,
when, and how the job should be run
A list of `credentials <#Credential>`__
An `execution environment <#Execution-Environment>`__
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Job Constraints**
A set of conditions which must be fulfilled in order for the job to
start. These conditions are far reaching and may include one or more of
the following:
When the job may run (i.e., after time X, within Y minutes, etc.)
Which resources may be allocated (i.e., Node must possess at least 512MB
of RAM, run only in partition or Partition C, or run an HostA and HostB)
Starting job relative to an particular event (i.e., start after job X
successfully completes)
``RELEASETIME>='Fri Jun 06, 10:00AM'``
``DEPENDENCY=AFTERCOMPLETION:cw.2004``
``NODEMEMORY==256MB``
` <>`__\ **Memory**
A quantity of physical memory (RAM). Memory is provided by compute
nodes. It is required as a constraint or consumed as a consumable
resource by jobs. Within Maui, memory is tracked and reported in
megabytes (MB).
Node node001 provides the following resources
``PROCS=1,MEMORY=512,SWAP=1024``
Job cw.24004 consumes the following resources per task
``PROCS=1,MEMORY=256``
N/A
` <>`__\ **Node**
A node is the fundamental object associated with compute resources. Each
node contains the following components
A list of `consumable resources <#Resource-Consumable>`__
A list of `node attributes <#Node-Attribute>`__
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Node Attribute**
A node attribute is a non-quantitative aspect of a node. Attributes
typically describe the node itself or possibly aspects of various node
resources such as processors or memory. While it is probably not optimal
to aggregate node and resource attributes together in this manner, it is
common practice. Common node attributes include processor architecture,
operating system, or processor speed. Jobs often specify that resources
be allocated from nodes possessing certain node attributes.
``ARCH=AMD,OS=LINUX24,PROCSPEED=950``
N/A
` <>`__\ **Node Feature**
A node feature is a `node attribute <#Node-Attribute>`__ which is
typically specified locally via some form of configuration file. Node
features are opaque strings associated with the node by the resource
manager which generally only have meaning to the end user or possibly to
the scheduler. Commonly, a node feature will be associated with a subset
of nodes allowing end users to request use of this subset by requiring
that resources be allocated from nodes with this feature present. In
many cases, node features are used to extend the information provided by
the resource manager.
``FEATURE=s950,pIII,geology``
(This may be used to indicate that the node possesses a 950 MHz Pentium
III processor and that the node is owned by the Geology dept)
N/A
` <>`__\ **Processor**
A processing unit. A processor is a consumable resource. Nodes typically
consist of one or more processors. (same as CPU)
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Quality of Service (QOS)**
An object which provides special services, resources, etc.
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Queue**
(see `Class <#Class>`__ )
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Reservation**
An object which reserves a specific collection or resources for a
specific timeframe for use by jobs which meet specific conditions
Reserve 24 processors and 8 GB of memory from time T1 to time T2 for use
by user X or jobs in the class batch
**RESERVATION**
| Attributes:
| STARTTIME (optional)
| DURATION (mandatory)
| FLAGS (optional)
| OWNER (optional)
| NAME (optional)

| Contains
| AS (1+:required)
| RESOURCES (1+:required)

Example:

<RESERVATION STARTTIME="98066503"><AS TYPE="ALLOW" OBJECT="QOS"
NAME="premium"/><RES TYPE=PROC COUNT="4" <CONSTRAINT ATTR="PROCSPEED"
CMP=">=900"/></RESERVATION>

(use: reservation creation, modification, destruction, and reporting)
**Resource**
N/A
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Resource, Available**
All `consumable resources <#Resource-Consumable>`__ are tracked and
managed in a number of ways. A compute node's available resources is
calculated as its `configured resources <#Resource-Configured>`__ minus
the sum of the resources actually utilized by all job tasks running on
the node.
Node cl003 is configured with 4 processors and 512 MB of memory. This
node is executing 2 tasks of job clserver.0041 which is utilizing 1
processor and 60 MB of memory each. Additionally, it is also running 1
task of job clserver.0047 which is using 1 processor and 250 MB of
memory.
Node cl003's available resources are thus

processors = 4 - (2 \* 1 + 1 \* 1) = 1
memory = 512 - (2 \* 60 + 1 \* 250) = 142 MB
N/A
` <>`__\ **Resource, Configured**
N/A
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Resource, Consumable**
Any object which can be utilized (i.e., consumed and thus made
unavailable to another job) by, or dedicated to a job is considered to
be a resource. Common examples of resources are a node's physical memory
or local disk. As these resources may given to one job and thus
unavailable to another, they are considered to be consumable. Other
aspects of a node, such as its operating system, are not considered to
be consumable since its use by one job does not preclude its use by
another.
Note that some node objects, such as a network adapter, may be dedicated
under some operating systems and resource managers and not under others.
On systems where the network adapter cannot be dedicated and the network
usage per job cannot be specified or tracked, network adapters are not
considered to be resources, but rather attributes.

Nodes possess a specific quantity of consumable resources such as real
memory, local disk, or processors. In a resource management system, the
node manager may choose to report only those configured resources
available to batch jobs. For example, a node may possess a 80 GB hard
drive but may have only 20 GB dedicated to batch jobs. Consequently, the
resource manager may report that the node has 20 GB of local disk
available when idle. Jobs may explicitly request a certain quantity of
consumable resources
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ Resource, Constraint
A resource constraint imposes a rule on which resources can be be used
to *match* a resource request. Resource constraints either specify a
required quantity and type of resource or a required node attribute. All
resource constraints must be met by any given node in order for a
*match* to be established.
**Resource, Dedicated**
A job may request that a block of resources be dedicated while the job
is executing. In this case, the scheduler is responsible to guaranteeing
that these resources, whether utilized by the job or not, are set aside,
unavailable to other jobs.
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Swap**
A quantity of virtual memory available for use by batch jobs. Swap is a
consumable resource provided by nodes and consumed by jobs
N/A
N/A
` <>`__\ **Task**
An atomic collection of consumable resources.
N/A
N/A
**User, Global**
The user credential used to provide access to functions and resources.
In local scheduling, global user IDs map directly to local user IDs.
N/A
N/A
**User, Local**
The user credential under which the job executable will be launched.
N/A
N/A
Workload
generalized term
N/A
N/A
