Scheduling Environment
######################

Scheduling Objects
******************

Maui functions by manipulating five primary, elementary objects. These
are jobs, nodes, reservations, QOS structures, and policies. In addition
to these, multiple minor elementary objects and composite objects are
also utilized. These objects are also defined in the `scheduling
dictionary <3.2.1dictionary.html>`__.

Jobs
====

Job information is provided to the Maui scheduler from a resource
manager such as Loadleveler, PBS, Wiki, or LSF. Job attributes include
ownership of the job, job state, amount and type of resources required
by the job, and a wallclock limit, indicating how long the resources are
required. A job consists of one or more
`requirements <#reqdefinition>`__ each of which requests a number of
resources of a given type. For example, a job may consist of two
requirements, the first asking for '1 IBM SP node with at least 512 MB
of RAM' and the second asking for '24 IBM SP nodes with at least 128 MB
of RAM'. Each requirements consists of one or more
`tasks <#taskdefinition>`__ where a task is defined as the minimal
independent unit of resources. By default, each task is equivalent to
one processor. In SMP environments, however, users may wish to tie one
or more processors together with a certain amount of memory and/or other
resources.

Requirement (or Req)
--------------------

A job *requirement* (or req) consists of a request for a single type of
resources. Each requirement consists of the following components:

- **Task Definition**

A specification of the elementary resources which compose an individual
task.

- **Resource Constraints**

A specification of conditions which must be met in order for resource
*matching* to occur. Only resources from nodes which meet **all**
resource constraints may be allocated to the job req.

- **Task Count**

The number of task instances required by the req.

- **Task List**

The list of nodes on which the task instances have been located.

- **Req Statistics**

| Statistics tracking resource utilization

Nodes
=====

As far as Maui is concerned, a node is a collection of resources with a
particular set of associated attributes. In most cases, it fits nicely
with the canonical world view of a node such as a PC cluster node or an
SP node. In these cases, a node is defined as one or more CPU's, memory,
and possibly other compute resources such as local disk, swap, network
adapters, software licenses, etc. Additionally, this node will described
by various attributes such as an architecture type or operating system.
Nodes range in size from small uniprocessor PC's to large SMP systems
where a single node may consist of hundreds of CPU's and massive amounts
of memory.

Information about nodes is provided to the scheduler chiefly by the
resource manager. Attributes include node state, configured and
available resources (i.e., processors, memory, swap, etc.), run classes
supported, etc.

Advance Reservations
====================

An advance reservation is an object which dedicates a block of specific
resources for a particular use. Each reservation consists of a list of
resources, an access control list, and a time range for which this
access control list will be enforced. The reservation prevents the
listed resources from being used in a way not described by the access
control list during the time range specified. For example, a reservation
could reserve 20 processors and 10 GB of memory for users Bob and John
from Friday 6:00 AM to Saturday 10:00 PM'. Maui uses advance
reservations extensively to manage backfill, guarantee resource
availability for active jobs, allow service guarantees, support
deadlines, and enable metascheduling. Maui also supports both regularly
recurring reservations and the creation of dynamic one time reservations
for special needs. Advance reservations are described in detail in the
advance reservation overview.

Policies
========

Policies are generally specified via a config file and serve to control
how and when jobs start. Policies include job prioritization, fairness
policies, fairshare configuration policies, and scheduling policies.

Resources
=========

Jobs, nodes, and reservations all deal with the abstract concept of a
resource. A resource in the Maui world is one of the following:

**processors**

Processors are specified with a simple count value.

**memory**

Real memory or 'RAM' is specified in megabytes (MB).

**swap**

Virtual memory or 'swap' is specified in megabytes (MB).

**disk**

Local disk is specified in megabytes (MB).

In addition to these elementary resource types, there are two higher
level resource concepts used within Maui. These are the *task* and the
*processor equivalent*, or PE.

Task
====

A task is a *collection* of elementary resources which must be allocated
together within a single `node <#nodedefinition>`__. For example, a task
may consist of one processor, 512MB or memory, and 2 GB of local disk. A
key aspect of a task is that the resources associated with the task must
be allocated as an *atomic* unit, without spanning node boundaries. A
task requesting 2 processors cannot be satisfied by allocating 2
uniprocessor nodes, nor can a task requesting 1 processor and 1 GB of
memory be satisfied by allocating 1 processor on one node and memory on
another.

In Maui, when jobs or reservations request resources, they do so in
terms of tasks typically using a task *count* and a task *definition*.
By default, a task maps directly to a single processor within a job and
maps to a full node within reservations. In all cases, this default
definition can be overridden by specifying a new task definition.

Within both jobs and reservations, depending on task definition, it is
possible to have multiple tasks from the same job mapped to the same
node. For example, a job requesting 4 tasks using the default task
definition of 1 processor per task, can be satisfied by two dual
processor nodes.

PE
==

The concept of the processor equivalent, or PE, arose out of the need to
translate multi-resource consumption requests into a scalar value. It is
not an elementary resource, but rather, a derived resource metric. It is
a measure of the actual *impact* of a set of requested resources by a
job on the total resources available system wide. It is calculated as:

| `` PE = MAX(ProcsRequestedByJob / TotalConfiguredProcs,``
| `` MemoryRequestedByJob / TotalConfiguredMemory,``
| `` DiskRequestedByJob / TotalConfiguredDisk,``
| `` SwapRequestedByJob / TotalConfiguredSwap) * TotalConfiguredProcs``

For example, say a job requested 20% of the total processors and 50% of
the total memory of a 128 processor MPP system. Only two such jobs could
be supported by this system. The job is essentially using 50% of all
available resources since the system can only be scheduled to its most
constrained resource, in this case memory. The processor equivalents for
this job should be 50% of the processors, or PE = 64.

Let's make the calculation concrete with one further example. Assume a
homogeneous 100 node system with 4 processors and 1 GB of memory per
node. A job is submitted requesting 2 processors and 768 MB of memory.
The PE for this job would be calculated as:

`` PE = MAX(2/(100*4), 768/(100*1024)) * (100*4) = 3.``

This result makes sense since the job would be consuming 3/4 of the
memory on a 4 processor node.

The calculation works equally well on homogeneous or heterogeneous
systems, uniprocessor or large way SMP systems.

Class (or Queue)
================

| A class (or queue) is a logical container object which can be used to
  implicitly or explicitly apply policies to jobs. In most cases, a
  class is defined and configured within the resource manager and
  associated with one or more of the following attributes or
  constraints:

+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Attribute**            | **Description**                                                                                                                                            |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Default Job Attributes   | A queue may be associated with a default job duration, default size, or default resource requirements                                                      |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Host Constraints         | A queue may constrain job execution to a particular set of hosts                                                                                           |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Job Constraints          | A queue may constrain the attributes of jobs which may submitted including setting limits such as max wallclock time, minimum number of processors, etc.   |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Access List              | A queue may constrain who may submit jobs into it based on user lists, group lists, etc.                                                                   |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Special Access           | A queue may associate special privileges with jobs including adjusted job priority.                                                                        |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

As stated previously, most resource managers allow full class
configuration within the resource manager. Where additional class
configuration is required, the
`CLASSCFG <a.fparameters.html#classcfg>`__ parameter may be used.

Maui tracks class usage as a consumable resource allowing sites to limit
the number of jobs using a particular class. This is done by monitoring
*class initiators* which may be considered to be a ticket to run in a
particular class. Any compute node may simultaneously support several
types of classes and any number of initiators of each type. By default,
nodes will have a one-to-one mapping between class initiators and
configured processors. For every job *task* run on the node, one class
initiator of the appropriate type is consumed. For example, a 3
processor job submitted to the class batch will consume three batch
class initiators on the nodes where it is run.

Using queues as consumable resources allows sites to specify various
policies by adjusting the class initiator to node mapping. For example,
a site running serial jobs may want to allow a particular 8 processor
node to run any combination of batch and special jobs subject to the
following constraints:

| - only 8 jobs of any type allowed simultaneously
| - no more than 4 special jobs allowed simultaneously

To enable this policy, the site may set the node's **MAXJOB** policy to
8 and configure the node with 4 special class initiators and 8 batch
class initiators.

Note that in virtually all cases jobs have a one-to-one correspondence
between processors requested and class initiators required. However,
this is not a requirement and, with special configuration sites may
choose to associate job tasks with arbitrary combinations of class
initiator requirements.

In displaying class initiator status, Maui signifies the type and number
of class initiators available using the format
[<CLASSNAME>:<CLASSCOUNT>]. This is most commonly seen in the output of
node status commands indicating the number of configured and available
class initiators, or in job status commands when displaying class
initiator requirements.

**Arbitrary Resource**

Node can also be configured to support various 'arbitrary resources'.
Information about such resources can be specified using the
`NODECFG <a.fparameters.html#nodecfg>`__ parameter. For example, a node
may be configured to have '256 MB RAM, 4 processors, 1 GB Swap, and 2
tape drives'.
