Configuring the Scheduler
#########################

Scheduler configuration is maintained using the flat text configfile
**maui.cfg**. All config file entries consist of simple '<PARAMETER>
<VALUE>' pairs which are whitespace delimited. Parameter names are not
case sensitive but <VALUE> settings are. Some parameters are array
values and should be specified as '<PARAMETER>[<INDEX>]', i.e.,
'QOSCFG[hiprio] PRIORITY=1000' The <VALUE> settings may be integers,
floats, strings, or arrays of these. Some parameters can be specified as
arrays and in such, index values can be numeric or alphanumeric strings.
If no array index is specified for an array parameter, an index of '0'
is assumed. See the `parameters <a.fparameters.html>`__ documentation
for information on specific parameters.
All config files are read when Maui is started up. Also, the **`schedctl
-R <commands/schedctl.html>`__** command can be used to reconfigure the
scheduler at any time, forcing it to re-read all config files before
continuing (**NOTE**: Only available in Moab 4.0 and later). The command
`changeparam <commands/changeparam.html>`__ can be used to change
individual parameter settings at any time, i.e.
'``changeparam LOGLEVEL 3``'. Changes made by the changeparam command
are not persistent so will be overwritten the next time the config file
values are loaded. The current parameter settings can be viewed at any
time using the `showconfig <commands/showconfig.html>`__ command.

Adjusting Server Behavior
*************************

Most any aspect of Maui's behavior can be configured. This includes both
scheduling policy behavior and daemon behavior. In terms of configuring
server behavior, the following realms are most commonly modified.

Logging
=======

| LOGDIR
| LOGFACILITY
| LOGFILE
| LOGFILEMAXSIZE
| LOGFILEROLLDEPTH
| LOGLEVEL

Checkpointing
=============

Maui checkpoints its internal state. The checkpoint file records
attributes in the following areas:

| Job: attributes, statistics
| Node: attributes, statistics
| Reservations: all aspects
| Scheduler: attributes, statistics
| Credentials: attributes, statistics (i.e., Credentials include user,
  group, account, QoS, and class)

**CPEXPIRATIONTIME**

Indicates how long unmodified data should be kept after the associated
object has disappeared. ie, job priority for a job no longer detected.

**CPFILE**

Indicates path name of checkpoint file

**CPINTERVAL**

Indicates interval between subsequent checkpoints.

Service Port
============

| SERVERHOST
| SERVERMODE
| SERVERNAME
| SERVERPORT
