Node Access Policies
####################

Maui allocates resources to jobs on the basis of a job task. As
described in the glossary, a task is an atomic collection of resources
which must be co-located on a single compute node. A given job may
request 20 tasks where each task is defined as 'one processor and 128 MB
of RAM'. Compute nodes with multiple processors often possess enough
resources to support more than one task simultaneously. When it is
possible for more than one task to run on a node, node access policies
determine which tasks may share the compute nodes resources.
Maui supports four distinct node access policies which are listed in the
table below.

+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Policy**       | **Description**                                                              |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SHARED**       | Tasks from any combination of jobs may utilize available resources           |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SINGLEUSER**   | Tasks from any jobs owned by the same user may utilize available resources   |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SINGLEJOB**    | Tasks from a single job may utilize available resources                      |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SINGLETASK**   | A single task from a single job may run on the node                          |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Node Access polices may be specified via the parameter
`**NODEACCESSPOLICY** <a.fparameters.html#nodeaccesspolicy>`__ . The
global default may be overridden using QOS flags or on a job-by-job
basis using the resource manager extension
**`NACCESSPOLICY <13.3rmextensions.html#NACCESSPOLICY>`__ .** By
default, nodes are accessible using the setting of the system wide
**NODEACCESSPOLICY** parameter. However, jobs may override this policy
and subsequent jobs are bound to conform to the access policies of all
jobs currently running on a given node. For example, if the
**NODEACCESSPOLICY** parameter was set to **SHARED**, a new job may be
launched on an idle node with a job specific access policy of
**SINGLEUSER**. While this job is running, subsequent job tasks may
only be launched on this node provided they were submitted by the same
user. When all single user jobs have completed on that node, the node
can again be used in **SHARED** mode.
