Allocation Management
#####################

Allocation Management Overview
******************************

An allocation manager (also known as an allocation bank or cpu bank) is
a software system which manages resource allocations where a resource
allocation grants a job a right to use a particular amount of resources.
This is not the right place for a full allocations manager overview but
a brief review may point out the value in using such a system.

An allocation manager functions much like a bank in that it provides a
form a currency which allows jobs to run on an HPC system. The owners of
the resource (cluster/supercomputer) determine how they want the system
to be used (often via an allocations committee) over a particular
timeframe, often a month, quarter, or year. To enforce their decisions,
they distribute allocations to various projects via various accounts and
assign each account an account manager. These allocations can be for use
particular machines or globally usable. They can also have activation
and expiration dates associated with them. All transaction information
is typically stored in a database or directory server allowing extensive
statistical and allocation tracking.

Each account manager determines how the allocations are made available
to individual users within his project. Allocation manager managers such
as PNNL's QBank allow the account manager to dedicate portions of the
overall allocation to individual users, specify some of allocations as
'shared' by all users, and hold some of the allocations in reserve for
later use.

When using an allocations manager each job must be associated with an
account. To accomplish this with minimal user impact, the allocation
manager could be set up to handle default accounts on a per user basis.
However, as is often the case, some users may be active on more than one
project and thus have access to more than one account. In these
situations, a mechanism, such as a job command file keyword, should be
provided to allow a user to specify which account should be associated
with the job.

The amount of each job's allocation *charge* is directly associated with
the amount of resources used (i.e. processors) by that job and the
amount of time it was used for. Optionally, the allocation manager can
also be configured to charge accounts varying amounts based on the QOS
desired by the job, the type of compute resources used, and/or the time
when the resources were used (both in terms of time of day and day of
week).

| The allocation manager interface provides near real-time allocation
  management, giving a great deal of flexibility and control over how
  available compute resources are used over the medium and long term and
  works hand in hand with other job management features such as Maui's
  throttling `policies <#policies>`__ and fairshare mechanism.

Configuring the Allocation Manager Interface
********************************************

Maui's allocation manager interface(s) are defined using the
`AMCFG <a.fparameters.html#amcfg>`__ parameter. This parameter allows
specification of key aspects of the interface as shown in the table
below.

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Attribute**                                                            |
| **Format**                                                               |
| **Default**                                                              |
| **Description**                                                          |
| **Example**                                                              |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **APPENDMACHINENAME**                                                    |
| BOOLEAN                                                                  |
| FALSE                                                                    |
| if specified, the scheduler will append the machine name to the consumer |
| account to create a unique account name per cluster.                     |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] APPENDMACHINENAME=TRUE                                   |
|                                                                          |
| (the scheduler will append the machine name to each account before       |
| making a debit from the allocation manager.)                             |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **CHARGEPOLICY**                                                         |
| one of **DEBITSUCCESSFULWC**, **DEBITALLCPU**, **DEBITALLPE**,           |
| **DEBITSUCCESSFULWC**, **DEBITSUCCESSFULCPU**, **DEBITSUCCESSFULPE**     |
| **DEBITALLWC**                                                           |
| specifies how consumed resources should be charged against the           |
| consumer's credentials.                                                  |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] CHARGEPOLICY=DEBITALLCPU                                 |
|                                                                          |
| (allocation charges will be based on actual cpu usage only, not dedicate |
| cpu resources)                                                           |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **DEFERJOBONFAILURE**                                                    |
| BOOLEAN                                                                  |
| FALSE                                                                    |
| if set to true, the scheduler will defer jobs if an allocation manager   |
| failure is detected.                                                     |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] DEFERJOBONFAILURE=TRUE                                   |
|                                                                          |
| (allocation management will be strictly enforced preventing jobs from    |
| starting if the allocation manager is unavailable.)                      |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **FALLBACKACCOUNT**                                                      |
| STRING                                                                   |
| [NONE]                                                                   |
| if specified, the scheduler will verify adequate allocations for all new |
| jobs. If adequate allocation are not available in the job's primary      |
| account, the scheduler will change the job's credentials to use the      |
| fallback account. If not specified, the scheduler will place a hold on   |
| jobs which do not have adequate allocations in their primary account.    |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] FALLBACKACCOUNT=freecycle                                |
|                                                                          |
| (the scheduler will assign the account ``freecycle`` to jobs which do    |
| not have adequate allocations in their primary account.)                 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **FLUSHINTERVAL**                                                        |
| [[[DD:]HH:]MM:]SS                                                        |
| 24:00:00                                                                 |
| indicates the amount of time between allocation manager debits for long  |
| running reservation and job based charges.                               |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] FLUSHINTERVAL=12:00:00                                   |
|                                                                          |
| (the scheduler will update its charges every twelve hours for long       |
| running jobs and reservations)                                           |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **HOST**                                                                 |
| STRING                                                                   |
| N/A                                                                      |
| specifies the name of the host providing the allocation manager service. |
| NOTE: deprecated in Maui 3.2.7 and higher. Use **SERVER** instead.       |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] HOST=tiny.supercluster.org                               |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **PORT**                                                                 |
| INTEGER                                                                  |
| N/A                                                                      |
| specifies the port used by the allocation manager service. NOTE:         |
| deprecated in Maui 3.2.7 and higher. Use **SERVER** instead.             |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] PORT=5656                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SERVER**                                                               |
| URL                                                                      |
| N/A                                                                      |
| specifies the type and location of the allocation manager service. If    |
| the keyword 'ANY' is specified instead of a URL, the scheduler will use  |
| the local service directory to locate the allocation manager. NOTE: the  |
| SERVER attribute is only available in Maui 3.2.7 and higher. Earlier     |
| releases should use the **HOST**, **PORT**, and **TYPE** attributes.     |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] SERVER=qbank://tiny.supercluster.org:4368                |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SOCKETPROTOCOL**                                                       |
| N/A                                                                      |
| N/A                                                                      |
| specifies the socket protocol to be used for scheduler-allocation        |
| manager communication                                                    |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] SOCKETPROTOCOL=SSS-CHALLENGE                             |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **TIMEOUT**                                                              |
| [[[DD:]HH:]MM:]SS                                                        |
| 10                                                                       |
| specifies the maximum delay allowed for scheduler-allocation manager     |
| communications                                                           |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] TIMEOUT=30                                               |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **TYPE**                                                                 |
| one of **QBANK**, **GOLD**, **RESD**, or **FILE**                        |
| **QBANK**                                                                |
| specifies the allocation manager type. NOTE: deprecated in Maui 3.2.7    |
| and higher. Use **SERVER** instead.                                      |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] TYPE=QBANK                                               |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **WIREPROTOCOL**                                                         |
| N/A                                                                      |
| N/A                                                                      |
| specifies the wire protocol to be used for scheduler-allocation manager  |
| communication                                                            |
| ::                                                                       |
|                                                                          |
|     AMCFG[bank] WIREPROTOCOL=SSS2                                        |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Configuring the allocation manager consists of two steps. The first step
involves specifying where the allocation service can be found. In Maui
3.2.7 and higher, this is accomplished by setting the **AMCFG**
parameter's **SERVER** attribute to the appropriate URL. In earlier
releases, the **HOST**, **PORT**, and **TYPE** attributes must be set.

Once the interface is specified, the second step involves the scheduler
to allow secure communication. As with other interfaces, this is
configured using the `CLIENTCFG <a.fparameters.html#clientcfg>`__
parameter within the ``maui-private.cfg`` file as described in the
`Security Appendix <a.esecurity.html>`__. In the case of an allocation
manager, the **CSKEY** and **CSALGO** attributes should be set to values
defined during initial allocation manager build and configuration as in
the example below:

::

    # maui-private.cfg

    CLIENTCFG[bank] CSKEY=HMAC CSALGO=HMAC

Allocation Management Policies
******************************

In most cases, the scheduler will interface with a peer service. (If the
protocol **FILE** is specified, the allocation manager transactions will
be dumped to the specified flat file.) With all peer services based
allocation managers, the scheduler will check with the allocation
manager before starting any job. For allocation tracking to work,
however, each job must specify an account to charge or the allocation
manager must be set up to handle default accounts on a per user basis.
Under this configuration, when Maui decides to start a job, it contacts
the allocation manager and requests an allocation reservation, or lien
be placed on the associated account. This allocation reservation is
equivalent to the total amount of allocation which could be consumed by
the job (based on the job's wallclock limit) and is used to prevent the
possibility of allocation oversubscription. Maui then starts the job.
When the job completes, Maui debits the amount of allocation actually
consumed by the job from the job's account and then releases the
allocation reservation or lien.

These steps transpire *under the covers* and should be undetectable by
outside users. Only when an account has insufficient allocations to run
a requested job will the presence of the allocation manager be noticed.
If desired, an account may be specified which is to be used when a job's
primary account is out of allocations. This account, specified using the
**AMCFG** parameter's `FALLBACKACCOUNT <>`__ attribute is often
associated with a low QOS privilege set and priority and often is
configured to only run when no other jobs are present.

Reservations can also be configured to be chargeable. One of the big
hesitations have with dedicating resources to a particular group is that
if the resources are not used by that group, they go idle and are
wasted. By configuration a reservation to be chargeable, sites can
charge every idle cycle of the reservation to a particular project. When
the reservation is in use, the consumed resources will be associated
with the account of the job using the resources. When the resources are
idle, the resources will be charged to the reservation's charge account.
In the case of standing reservations, this account is specified using
the parameter `SRCFG <a.fparameters.html#SRCFG>`__ attribute
**CHARGEACCOUNT**. In the case of administrative reservations, this
account is specified via a command line flag to the
`setres <commands/setres.html>`__ command.

Maui will only interface to the allocation manager when running in
*NORMAL* mode. However, this behavior can be overridden by setting the
environment variable 'MAUIAMTEST' to any value. With this variable set,
Maui will attempt to interface to the allocation manager regardless of
the scheduler's mode of operation.

The allocation manager interface allows a site to charge accounts in a
number of different ways. Some sites may wish to charge for all jobs run
through a system regardless of whether or not the job completed
successfully. Sites may also want to charge based on differing usage
metrics, such as walltime dedicated or processors actually utilized.
Maui supports the following charge policies specified via the
**CHARGEPOLICY** attribute:

-  **DEBITALLWC** - charge for all jobs regardless of job completion
   state using processor weighted wallclock time dedicated as the usage
   metric
-  DEBITSUCCESSFULWC - charge only for jobs which successfully complete
   using processor weighted wallclock time dedicated as the usage metric
-  **DEBITSUCCESSFULCPU** - charge only for jobs which successfully
   complete using CPU time as the usage metric
-  **DEBITSUCCESSFULPE** - charge only for jobs which successfully
   complete using PE weighted wallclock time dedicated as the usage
   metric

.. note::

   On systems where job wallclock limits are specified, jobs
   which exceed their wallclock limits and are subsequently cancelled by
   the scheduler or resource manager will be considered as having
   successfully completed as far as charging is concerned, even though the
   resource manager may report these jobs as having been 'removed' or
   'cancelled'.

Allocation Manager Details
**************************

QBank Allocation Manager
========================

QBank, developed at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), is a
dynamic cpu bank that allows system owners and funding managers to fine
tune when, where, how and to whom their resources are to be rationed.
Much like a bank, but with the currency measured in computational
credits instead of dollars, QBank provides an administrative interface
supporting familiar operations such as deposits, withdrawals, transfers
and refunds. It provides balance and usage feedback to users, managers,
and system administrators. Computational resources are allocated to
projects and users and full accounting is made of resource utilization.
QBank employs a debit (or credit) system in which a hold (reservation)
is placed against a user's account before a job starts and a withdrawal
occurs immediately after the job completes. This approach ensures
requestors of a resource can only use that which has been allocated to
them. Allocations for a given account can be subdivided into portions
available toward different users, machines and timeframes. Presetting
allocations to activate and expire in regular intervals minimizes
year-end resource exhaustion and facilitates capacity planning. QBank
can manage and track the use of multiple systems from a central
location. Additionally, support for job charge quotes and traceback
debits allows QBank to be used in meta-scheduling environments involving
multiple administrative domains.

In high level summary, QBank provides the following features:

-  **real time allocation tracking** - tight scheduler integration to
   update allocations as jobs start and are completed
-  **guaranteed allocation enforcement** - reservation based allocation
   tracking to prevent over-subscription
-  **project based allocation management** - project managers allowed to
   dedicate or share allocations amongst account members
-  **allocation expiration** - allocations can be granted with arbitrary
   expiration timeframes
-  **per machine allocations** - allocations can be tied to specific
   compute resources or allowed to *float* granting access to any
   machine
-  ***grid ready* multi-site bank exchange** - able to track **and
   enforce** resource usage amongst users of various sites
-  **QOS and nodetype billing** - allowing sites to charge varying rates
   based on the quality of service and type of compute resource
   requested
-  **fliexible charging algorithm** - site specific charge rates can be
   specified for period of time, number of processors, amount of memory,
   etc consumed by job
-  **secure communication** - secret key based communication with
   administrators, account managers, and peer services
-  **resource quotations** - users and brokers can determine ahead of
   time the cost of using resources
-  **database independence** - built on perl database abstraction layer
   allowing support for any commonly used commercial or opensource
   database
-  **allocation usage reports** - provides detailed usage reports and
   summaries of exactly who used what and when over any specified
   timeframe
-  **role-based design** - allows user, account manager, and bank
   manager service authorization levels
-  **mature suite of allocation management tools** - commands provided
   allowing refunds, automatic account distributions, intra-project
   allocation transfers, and default project management.
-  **user friendly commands** - allows end-users to track historical
   usage and available allocations
-  **transparency** - zero end-user involvement required to fully track
   job usage through proper batch scheduler configuration and user of
   bank based default accounts
-  **multi-project user support** - if desired, users can explicitly
   specify job-to-project associations overriding project defaults
-  **support for both credit and debit based accounts** - sites can base
   allocations on credit or debit models and even enable *overdraft*
   protection for specific projects

Res Allocation Manager
======================

N/A

File Allocation Manager
=======================

N/A

Gold Allocation Manager
=======================

Gold is an accounting and allocation management system being developed
at PNNL under the DOE Scalable Systems Software (SSS) project. Gold is
similar to QBank in that it supports a dynamic approach to allocation
tracking and enforcement with reservations, quotations, etc. It offers
more flexible controls for managing access to computational resources
and exhibits a more powerful query interface. Gold supports hierarchical
project nesting. Journaling allows the preservation of all historical
state information.
One of the most powerful features is that Gold is dynamically
extensible. New object/record types and their fields can be dynamically
created and manipulated through the regular query language turning this
system into a generalized accounting and information service. This
capability is extremely powerful and can be used to provide custom
accounting, meta-scheduler resource-mapping, or an external persistence
interface.

Gold supports strong authentication and encryption and role based access
control. A Web-accessible GUI is being developed to simplify management
and use of the system. Gold will support interaction with peer
accounting systems with a traceback feature enabling it to function in a
meta-scheduling or grid environment. It is anticipated that a beta
version of Gold will be released near 2Q04. More information about Gold
can be obtained by sending email to the gold development mailing list.
