Load Balancing Features
#######################

*Load balancing* is generally defined as the incorporation of resource
load information into scheduling decisions. Maui supports load balancing
in a number of ways allowing sites to use node load information to both
determine `resource availability <5.4nodeavailability.html>`__ and to
control job `resource allocation <5.2nodeallocation.html>`__.

Resource Availability
*********************

Maui will only schedule jobs onto available nodes. Using Maui's `node
availability policies <5.4nodeavailability.html>`__, a site can specify
exactly what criteria determine the node's availability. For load
balancing purposes, sites may wish to configure availability criteria
for processors, memory, and swap. Various settings can enable
overcommiting resources if desired while others can constrain nodes to
only accept jobs if resources exist to meet the maximum needs of all
concurrent job requests.

Prioritizing Node Allocation
****************************

The second major aspect of load balancing has to do with the selection
of resources for new jobs. With Maui, load information can be
incorporated into the node allocation decision by using
the\ **PRIORITY** `node allocation <5.2nodeallocation.html>`__ policy.
This policy allows specification of which aspects of a node's
configuration contribute to its allocation priority. For load balancing
purposes, a site would want to favor nodes with the most available
processors and the lowest load and job count. The node allocation
priority function is set using the **PRIORITYF** attribute of the
**NODECFG** parameter as shown in the example below:

::

    -----
    # maui.cfg

    NODEALLOCATIONPOLICY  PRIORITY
    NODECFG[DEFAULT]      PRIORITYF='10 * APROCS - LOAD - JOBCOUNT'
    -----

Other node aspects which may be of value in configuring load-balancing
based node allocation include **SPEED** and **CPROCS**.
