Throttling Policies
###################

Maui possesses a number of policies which allow an administrator to
control the flow of jobs through the system. These throttling policies
work as filters allowing or disallowing a job to be considered for
scheduling by specifying limits regarding system usage for any given
moment. These policies may be specified as global or specific
constraints specified on a per user, group, account, QOS, or class
basis.

Fairness via Throttling Policies
********************************

Significant improvements in the flexibility of throttling policies were
introduced in Maui 3.2. Those sites using versions prior to this should
consult the `Maui 3.0 style throttling policy configuration
documentation <throttling306.html>`__. At a high level, Maui allows
resource usage limits to be specified for in three primary dimensions:

Basic Fairness Policies
=======================

| - Active Job Limits (Constrains the total cumulative resource
  available to active jobs at a given time)
| - Idle Job Limits (Constrains the total cumulative resources available
  to idle jobs at a given time)
| - System Job Limits (Constrains the maximum resource requirements of
  any single job)

These limits can be applied to any job credential (user, group, account,
QOS, and class), or on a system-wide basis. Using the keyword
**DEFAULT**, a site may also specify the default setting for the desired
user, group, account, QOS, and class. Additionally, QoS's may be
configured to allow limit `overrides <>`__ to any particular policy.

| For a job to run, it must meet all policy limits. Limits are applied
  using the '**\*CFG**' set of parameters, particularly,
  `USERCFG <a.fparameters.html#usercfg>`__,
  `GROUPCFG <a.fparameters.html#groupcfg>`__,
  `ACCOUNTCFG <a.fparameters.html#accountcfg>`__,
  `QOSCFG <a.fparameters.html#qoscfg>`__,
  `CLASSCFG <a.fparameters.html#classcfg>`__, and
  `SYSTEMCFG <a.fparameters.html#systemcfg>`__. Limits are specified by
  associating the desired limit to the individual or default object. The
  usage limits currently supported are listed in the table below.

+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **NAME**      | **UNITS**                                      | **DESCRIPTION**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | **EXAMPLE**              |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXJOB**    | # of jobs                                      | Limits the number of jobs a credential may have active (Starting or Running) at any given time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | MAXJOB=8 or MAXJOB=2,4   |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXPROC**   | # of processors                                | Limits the total number of dedicated processors which can be allocated by active jobs at any given time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | MAXPROC=32               |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXPS**     | <# of processors> \* <walltime>                | Limits the number of outstanding processor-seconds a credential may have allocated at any given time. For example, if a user has a 4 processor job which will complete in 1 hour and a 2 processor job which will complete in 6 hours, he has '4 \* 1 \* 3600 + 2 \* 6 \* 3600 = 16 \* 3600' outstanding processor-seconds. The outstanding processor-second usage of each credential is updated each scheduling iteration, decreasing as job's approach their completion time.   | MAXPS=720000             |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXPE**     | # of `processor equivalents <#PEoverview>`__   | Limits the total number of dedicated processor-equivalents which can be allocated by active jobs at any given time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | MAXPE=128                |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXWC**     | job duration [[[DDD:]HH:]MM:]SS                | Limits the number of outstanding seconds a credential may have associated with active jobs. It behaves identically to the MAXPS limit above only lacking the processor weighting. Like MAXPS, the outstanding second usage of each credential is also updated each scheduling iteration.                                                                                                                                                                                          | MAXWC=72:00:00           |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXNODE**   | # of nodes                                     | limits the total number of compute nodes which can be in use by active jobs at any given time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | MAXNODE=64               |
|               |                                                | **NOTE:** on some systems (including torque/pbs) nodes have been softly defined rather than strictly defined; ie. a job may request 2 nodes but torque will translate this request to 1 node with 2 procs. This can prevent Moab from enforcing a **MAXNODE** policy correctly for a single job. Correct behavior can be achieved using **MAXPROC**.                                                                                                                              |                          |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
| **MAXMEM**    | total memory in MB                             | Limits the total amount of dedicated memory (in MB) which can be allocated by a credential's active jobs at any given time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | MAXMEM=2048              |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+

The example below demonstrates a simple limit specification.

| ----
| ``USERCFG[DEFAULT] MAXJOB=4``
| ``USERCFG[john] MAXJOB=8``
| ----

This example will allow user *john* to run up to 8 jobs while all other
users may only run up to 4.

Simultaneous limits of different types may be applied per credential and
multiple types of credential may have limits specified. The next example
demonstrates this mixing of limits and is a bit more complicated .

| ----
| ``USERCFG[steve] MAXJOB=2 MAXNODE=30``
| ``GROUPCFG[staff] MAXJOB=5``
| ``CLASSCFG[DEFAULT] MAXNODE=16``
| ``CLASSCFG[batch] MAXNODE=32``
| ----

This configuration may potentially apply multiple limits to a single
job. Limits for user *steve* will cause that jobs submitted under his
user ID will be constrained so that he may only run up to 2 simultaneous
jobs with an aggregate node consumption of 30 nodes. However, if he
submits a job to a class other than *batch*, he may be limited further.
Only 16 total nodes may be used simultaneously by jobs running in any
given class with the exception of the class *batch*. If *steve*
submitted a job to run in the class *interactive* for example, and there
were jobs already running in this class using a total of 14 nodes, his
job would be blocked unless it requested 2 or fewer nodes by the default
limit of 16 nodes per class.\ ****

Multi-Dimension Fairness Policies
=================================

Multi-dimensional fairness policies allow a site to specify policies
based on combinations of job credentials. A common example might be
setting a maximum number of jobs allowed per queue per user or a total
number of processors per group per QoS. As with basic fairness policies,
multi-dimension policies are specified using the **\*CFG** parameters.
Maui 3.2 supports the most commonly used multi-dimensional fairness
policies including the following:

| **MAXJOB[Class,User]**
| **MAXNODE[Class,User]**
| **MAXPROC[Class,User]**

These limits are specified using the following format:

``*CFG[X] <LIMIT>[<CRED>]=<LIMIT>``

where <LIMIT> is one of the policies listed in table in `section
6.2.1.1 <#basic>`__ and <CRED> is of the format *<CREDTYPE>[:<VALUE>]*
with *CREDTYPE* being one of **USER**, **GROUP**, **ACCOUNT**, **QOS**,
or **CLASS**. The optional <VALUE> setting can be used to specify that
the policy only applies to a specific credential value. For example, the
config below sets limits on the class *fast* controlling the maximum
number of jobs any group can have active at any given time and the
number of processors in use at any given time for user *steve*.

::

    -----
    # maui.cfg

    CLASSCFG[fast] MAXJOB[GROUP]=12
    CLASSCFG[fast] MAXPROC[USER:steve]=50
    -----

The following example config may clarify further:

::

    ------
    # maui.cfg

    # allow class batch to run up the 3 simultaneous jobs
    # allow any user to use up to 8 total nodes within class
    CLASSCFG[batch] MAXJOB=3 MAXNODE[USER]=8

    # allow users steve and bob to use up to 3 and 4 total processors respectively within class
    CLASSCFG[fast] MAXPROC[USER:steve]=3 MAXPROC[USER:bob]=4
    ------

NOTE: Maui 3.2 does not fully support all multi-dimensional throttling
policies. For such systems, a subset of these policies can be specified
using the attributes **MAXNODEPERUSER**, **MAXJOBPERUSER**, and
**MAXPROCPERUSER**.

|
| **See Also:**

| N/A

Override Limits
***************

Like all job credentials, the QOS object may be also be associated with
resource usage limits. However, this credential can also be given
special override limits which supersede the limits of other credentials.
Override limits are applied by preceding the limit specification with
the capital letter '**O**'. The configuration below provides an example
of this.

::

    ----
    USERCFG[steve]    MAXJOB=2   MAXNODE=30
    GROUPCFG[staff]   MAXJOB=5
    CLASSCFG[DEFAULT] MAXNODE=16
    CLASSCFG[batch]   MAXNODE=32
    QOSCFG[hiprio]    OMAXJOB=3  OMAXNODE=64
    ----

This configuration is identical to the example shown earlier with the
exception of the final **QOSCFG** line. In this case, the **QOSCFG**
parameter does two things:

-  Only 3 *hiprio* QOS jobs may run simultaneously
-  *hiprio* QOS jobs may run with up to 64 nodes per credential ignoring
   other credential **MAXNODE** limits.

Given the above configuration, assume a job was now submitted with the
credentials, user steve, group staff, class batch, and QOS hiprio.

This job will be allowed to start so long as running it does not lead to
any of the following conditions:

-  total nodes used by user *steve* jobs do not exceed 64
-  total active jobs associated with user *steve* does not exceed 2
-  total active jobs associated with group *staff* does not exceed 5
-  total nodes dedicated to class *batch* jobs do not exceed 64
-  total active jobs associated with QOS *hiprio* does not exceed 3

While the above example is a bit complicated for actual use at most
sites, similar combinations may be needed to enforce site policies on
many larger systems.

Idle Job Limits
***************

Idle job limits control which jobs are eligible for scheduling. To be
eligible for scheduling, a job must meet the following conditions:

-  be 'idle' as far as the resource manager is concerned (no holds, etc)
-  have all job prerequisites satisfied (no outstanding job or data
   dependencies)
-  meet all 'idle' job throttling policies

If a job fails to meet any these conditions, it will not be considered
for scheduling and will not accrue 'service' based job prioritization
(see `service component <5.1.2priorityfactors.html#servicecomponent>`__
and `JOBPRIOACCRUALPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#jobprioaccrualpolicy>`__).
The primary purpose of idle job limits is to ensure fairness amongst
competing users by preventing 'queue stuffing' and other similar abuses.
'Queue stuffing' occurs when a single entity submits large numbers of
jobs, perhaps thousands, all at once so the they begin accruing
queuetime based priority and remain first to run despite subsequent
submissions by other users.

Idle limits are specified in a manner almost identical to active job
limits with the insertion of the capital letter 'I' into the middle of
the limit name. For example, to limit the number of idle (eligible) jobs
a given user could have at once, the following parameter could be used:

::

    ------
    # maui.cfg

    USERCFG[DEFAULT]  MAXIJOB=20
    ------

As shown above, idle limits can constrain the total number of jobs
considered to be eligible on a per credential basis. Further, like
active job limits, idle job limits can also constrain eligible jobs
based on aggregate requested resources. This could, for example, allow a
site to indicate that for a given user, only jobs requesting up to a
total of 64 processors, or 3200 processor-seconds would be considered at
any given time. Which jobs to select is accomplished by prioritizing all
'idle' jobs, and then adding jobs to the 'eligible' list one at a time
in priority order until jobs can no longer be added. This 'eligible' job
selection is done only once per scheduling iteration so consequently,
idle job limits only support a single 'hard' limit specification. Any
specified 'soft' limit will be ignored.

All job limit types supported as active job limits are also supported as
idle job limits. (See `Basic Fairness Policies <#basic>`__).

Examples:

::

    -------
    # maui.cfg
    USERCFG[steve]    MAXIJOB=2 MAXIPROC=30
    GROUPCFG[staff]   MAXIJOB=5
    CLASSCFG[DEFAULT] MAXIPROC=16
    CLASSCFG[batch]   MAXIPROC=32
    QOSCFG[hiprio]    MAXIJOB=3 MAXIPROC=64
    -------

Hard and Soft Limits
********************

Hard and soft limit specification allow a site to balance both fairness
and utilization on a given system. Typically, throttling limits are used
to constrain the quantity of resources a given credential (user, group,
etc) is allowed to consume. These limits can be very effective in
enforcing fair usage amongst a group of users. However, in a lightly
loaded system or one in which there are significant swings in usage from
project to project, these limits can reduce system utilization by
blocking jobs even when no competing jobs are queued.

Soft limits help address this problem by providing additional scheduling
flexibility. They allow sites to specify two tiers of limits, the more
constraining limits, *soft* limits, are basically in effect in heavily
loaded situations and reflect tight fairness constraints. The more
flexible *hard* limits specify how flexible the scheduler can be in
selecting jobs when there are idle resources available after all jobs
meeting the tighter soft limits have been started. Soft and hard limits
are specified in the format *[<SOFTLIMIT>,]<HARDLIMIT>*. For example, a
given site may want to use the following configuration:

::

    -------
    # maui.cfg
    USERCFG[DEFAULT]  MAXJOB=2,8
    -------

With this configuration, the scheduler would select all jobs which meet
the per user **MAXJOB** limit of 2. It would then attempt to start and
or reserve resources for all of these selected jobs. If after doing so
there still remain available resources, the scheduler would then select
all jobs which meet the less constraining hard per user **MAXJOB** limit
of 8 jobs. These jobs would then be scheduled and/or reserved as
available resources allowed.

| If no soft limit is specified or the soft limit is less constraining
  the the hard limit, the soft limit is set equal to the hard limit.
  Examples:

::

    -------
    #maui.cfg

    USERCFG[steve]    MAXJOB=2,4 MAXNODE=15,30
    GROUPCFG[staff]   MAXJOB=2,5
    CLASSCFG[DEFAULT] MAXNODE=16,32
    CLASSCFG[batch]   MAXNODE=12,32
    QOSCFG[hiprio]    MAXJOB=3,5 MAXNODE=32,64
    -------
