Node Set Overview
#################

While backfill improves the scheduler's performance, this is only half
the battle. The efficiency of a cluster, in terms of actual work
accomplished, is a function of both scheduling performance and
individual job efficiency. In many clusters, job efficiency can vary
from node to node as well as with the node mix allocated. Most parallel
jobs written in popular languages such as MPI or PVM do not internally
load balance their workload and thus run only as fast as the slowest
node allocated. Consequently, these jobs run most effectively on
homogeneous sets of nodes. However, while many clusters start out as
homogeneous, they quickly evolve as new generations of compute nodes are
integrated into the system. Research has shown that this integration,
while improving scheduling performance due to increased scheduler
selection, can actually decrease average job efficiency.

A feature called node sets allows jobs to request sets of common
resources without specifying exactly what resources are required. Node
set policy can be specified globally or on a per-job basis and can be
based on node processor speed, memory, network interfaces, or locally
defined node attributes. In addition to their use in forcing jobs onto
homogeneous nodes, these policies may also be used to guide jobs to one
or more types of nodes on which a particular job performs best, similar
to job preferences available in other systems. For example, an I/O
intensive job may run best on a certain range of processor speeds,
running slower on slower nodes, while wasting cycles on faster nodes. A
job may specify ANYOF:PROCSPEED:450,500,650 to request nodes in the
range of 450 to 650 MHz. Alternatively, if a simple
procspeed-homogeneous node set is desired, ONEOF:PROCSPEED may be
specified. On the other hand, a communication sensitive job may request
a network based node set with the configuration
ONEOF:NETWORK:via,myrinet,ethernet, in which case Maui will first
attempt to locate adequate nodes where all nodes contain via network
interfaces. If such a set cannot be found, Maui will look for sets of
nodes containing the other specified network interfaces. In highly
heterogeneous clusters, the use of node sets have been found to improve
job throughput by 10 to 15%.

Node sets can be requested on a system wide or per job basis. System
wide configuration is accomplished via the '**NODESET\***' parameters
while per job specification occurs via the `resource manager
extensions <13.3rmextensions.html>`__. In all cases, node sets are a
dynamic construct, created on a per job basis and built only of nodes
which meet all of the jobs requirements.

As an example, let's assume a large site possessed a Myrinet based
interconnect and wished to, whenever possible, allocate nodes within
Myrinet switch boundaries. To accomplish this, they could assign node
attributes to each node indicating which switch it was associated with
(ie, switchA, switchB, etc) and then use the following system wide node
set configuration:

::

  NODESETPOLICY ONEOF
  NODESETATTRIBUTE FEATURE
  NODESETDELAY 0:00:00
  NODESETLIST switchA switchB switchC switchD


The `NODESETPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#nodesetpolicy>`__ parameter tells
Maui to allocate nodes within a single attribute set. Setting
`NODESETATTRIBUTE <a.fparameters.html#nodesetattribute>`__ to
**FEATURE** specifies that the node sets are to be constructed along
node feature boundaries. The next parameter,
`NODESETDELAY <a.fparameters.html#nodesetdelay>`__, indicates that Maui
should not delay the start time of a job if the desired node set is not
available but adequate idle resources exist outside of the set. Setting
this parameter to zero basically tells Maui to attempt to use a node set
if it is available, but if not, run the job as soon as possible anyway.
(**NOTE**: In Maui 3.2, any non-zero value of **NODESETDELAY** will
force the job to always run in a complete nodeset regardless of the
delay time.) Finally, the
`NODESETLIST <a.fparameters.html#nodesetlist>`__ value of 'switchA
switchB...' tells Maui to only use node sets based on the listed feature
values. This is necessary since sites will often use node features for
many purposes and the resulting node sets would be of little use for
switch proximity if they were generated based on irrelevant node
features indicating things such as processor speed or node architecture.

On occasion, sites may wish to allow a less strict interpretation of
nodes sets. In particular, many sites seek to enforce a more liberal
**PROCSPEED** based node set policy, where *almost balanced* node
allocations are allowed but wildly varying node allocations are not. In
such cases, the parameter
`NODESETTOLERANCE <a.fparameters.html#nodesettolerance>`__ may be used.
This parameter allows specification of the percentage difference between
the fastest and slowest node which can be within a nodeset using the
following calculation:

.. math::

   (Speed.Max - Speed.Min) / Speed.Min <= \mathbf{NODESETTOLERANCE}

Thus setting **NODESETTOLERANCE** to 0.5 would allow the fastest node in
a particular node set to be up to 50% faster than the slowest node in
that set. With a 0.5 setting, a job may allocate a mix of 500 and 750
MHz nodes but not a mix of 500 and 900 MHz nodes. Currently, tolerances
are only supported when the **NODESETATTRIBUTE** parameter is set to
**PROCSPEED**. The `MAXBALANCE <5.2nodeallocation.html#MAXBALANCE>`__
node allocation algorithm is often used in conjunction with tolerance
based node sets.

| When resources are available in more than one resource set, the
  `NODESETPRIORITYTYPE <a.fparameters.html#nodesetprioritytype>`__
  parameter allows control over how the 'best' resource set is selected.
  Legal values for this parameter are described in the table below.

+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Priority Type**   | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                          | **Details**                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| BESTFIT             | select the smallest resource set possible                                                                                                                                                                | minimizes fragmentation of larger resource sets.                                                                                                                                                                               |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| BESTRESOURCE        | select the resource set with the 'best' nodes                                                                                                                                                            | only supported when ``NODESETATTRIBUTE`` is set to ``PROCSPEED``. Selects the fastest possible nodes for the job.                                                                                                              |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| MINLOSS             | select the resource set which will result in the minimal wasted resources assuming no internal job load balancing is available. (assumes parallel jobs only run as fast as the slowest allocated node)   | Only supported when ``NODESETATTRIBUTE`` is set to ``PROCSPEED`` and ``NODESETTOLERANCE`` is > 0. This algorithm is highly useful in environments with mixed speed compute nodes and a non load-balancing parallel workload.   |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| WORSTFIT            | select the largest resource set possible                                                                                                                                                                 | minimizes the creation of small resource set fragments but fragments larger resource sets.                                                                                                                                     |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

**** On a per job basis, each user can specify the equivalent of all
parameters except **NODESETDELAY**. As mentioned previously, this is
accomplished using the `resource manager
extensions <13.3rmextensions.html>`__.
