Accounting: Job and System Statistics
#####################################

Maui provides extensive accounting facilities which allow resource usage
to be tracked by resources (i.e., compute nodes), jobs, users, and other
objects. The accounting facilities may be used in conjunction with and
correlated with the accounting provided by the resource manager.

Maui maintains a large number of statistics and provides several
commands to allow easy access to and helpful consolidation of this
information. These statistics are of three primary types:


Accounting Overview
*******************

Maui provides accounting data correlated to most major objects utilized
within scheduling. The records include job accounting, resource
accounting, and credential based accounting.

Job Accounting
==============

As each job completes, Maui records a complete job trace containing
information about who ran the job, when and where it ran, what resources
it requested, what it actually utilized, and other pieces of key
information. A complete description of each of the job accounting data
fields can be found within section `16.3 Workload
Traces <16.3workloadtrace.html>`__ of the admin manual.

Resource Accounting
===================

N/A

Credential Accounting
=====================

N/A

Real Time Statistics
********************

Maui provides real time statistical information about how the machine is
running from a scheduling point of view. The
`showstats <commands/showstats.html>`__ commands is actually a suite of
commands providing detailed information on an overall scheduling basis
as well as a per user, group, account and node basis. This command gets
its information from in memory statistics which are loaded at scheduler
start time from the scheduler checkpoint file. (See the Checkpoint
Overview for more information) This checkpoint file is updated from time
to time and when the scheduler is shutdown allowing statistics to be
collected over an extended timeframe. At any time, real time statistics
can be reset using the `resetstats <commands/resetstats.html>`__
command.
In addition to the showstats command, the
`showgrid <commands/showgrid.html>`__ command also obtains its
information from the in memory stats and checkpoint file. This command
display a processor-time based matrix of scheduling performance for a
wide variety of metrics. Information such as backfill effectiveness or
average job queue time can be determined on a job size/duration basis.
See the showgrid command documentation for more information.

Profiling Historical Usage
**************************

Historical usage information can be obtained for a specific
timeframe, class of jobs, and/or portion of resources using the
`profiler <commands/profiler.html>`__ command. This command operates on
the `detailed job trace information <trace.html>`__ recorded at the
completion of each job. These traces are stored in the directory pointed
to by the `STATDIR <a.fparameters.html#statdir>`__ parameter which
defaults to **$(MAUIHOMEDIR)/stats**. Within this directory, statistics
files are maintained using the format ``WWW_MMM_DD_YYYY`` (i.e,
Mon\_Jul\_16\_2001) with jobs traces being recorded in the file
associated with the day the job completed. Each job trace is white space
delimited flat text and may be viewed directly with any text reader.

When profiling statistics, stat files covering the time frame of
interest should be aggregated into a single file. This file can be
passed to the profiler command along with a number of configuration
flags controlling what data should be processed and how it should be
display. Command line flags allow specification of constraints such as
earliest start date, or latest completion date. Flags can also be used
to evaluate only jobs associated with specific users, groups, accounts,
or QOS's. Further, it is possible to specify that only jobs run on
certain nodes be processed. Because the trace files are flat text,
simple Unix® text processing tools such as awk, sed, or grep can be used
to create more elaborate filters should they be needed.

The output of the profiler command provides extensive detailed
information about what jobs ran and what level of scheduling service
they received. The profiler command documentation should be consulted
for more information.

Fairshare Usage Statistics
**************************

Regardless of whether of not fairshare is enabled, detailed
credential based fairshare statistics are maintained. Like job traces,
these statistics are stored in the directory pointed to by the STATDIR
parameter. Fairshare stats are maintained in a separate statistics file
using the format FS.<EPOCHTIME> (i.e., FS.982713600) with one file
created per fairshare window. (See the `Fairshare
Overview <#fairshare>`__ for more information) These files are also flat
text and record credential based usage statistics. Information from
these files can be seen via the `diagnose
-f <commands/diagnosefairshare.html>`__ command.
|image5| The `Moab Cluster Manager <../mcm/index.html>`__\ :sup:`TM`
`graphically organizes <../mcm/fairshare.html>`__ the fairshare values
by credential for easy navigation and provides a
`GUI <../mcm/fairshare.html>`__ to specify the Decay Factor, Depth,
Interval Length and Usage Metric.

SMP Aspects
===========

**Shared vs Dedicated**

SMP nodes are often used to run jobs which do not use all available
resources on that node. How Maui handles these unused resources is
controlled by the parameter
`NODEACCESSPOLICY <a.fparameters.html#nodeaccesspolicy>`__. If this
parameter is set to **SHARED**, Maui will allow tasks of other jobs to
use the resources. If this parameter is set to **DEDICATED**, Maui will
mark these resources unavailable for use by other jobs.
